+++
title = "Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, Metabolic Syndrome, and Inflammation in the Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos"
date = "2025-06-18T00:00:00"
draft = false

authors = ["HC Rao", "ML Meyer", "MA Kominiarek", "ML Daviglus", "LC Gallo", "C Cordero", "R Syan", "KM Perreira", "GA Talavera", "L Fernández-Rhodes"]
publication = "_The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism_"
publication_short = "_JCEM_"
publication_types = ["2"]

abstract = "Context:Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a multifaceted endocrine disorder with reproductive and metabolic dysregulation. PCOS has been associated with inflammation and metabolic syndrome (MetS); however, the moderating effects of inflammation as measured by C-reactive protein (CRP) and menopause on the PCOS-MetS association have not been studied in Hispanic/Latinas with PCOS who have a higher metabolic burden. Objective: We studied the cross-sectional association between PCOS and (1) MetS in 7316 females of the Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos (HCHS/SOL), (2) subcomponents of MetS including impaired fasting glucose (IFG) and elevated triglycerides (TGL), and (3) effect modification by menopausal status and CRP. Design: The HCHS/SOL is a multicenter, longitudinal, and observational study of US Hispanic/Latinos. Our study sample included females from visit 2 with self-reported PCOS and MetS (ages 23-82 years). Results: PCOS (prevalence = 18.8%) was significantly associated with MetS prevalence [odds ratio [odds ratio (OR) = 1.41 (95% confidence interval: 1.13-1.76)], IFG and TGL (OR = 1.42 (1.18-1.72), OR = 1.48 (1.20-1.83), respectively]. We observed effect modification by menopausal status (ORpre = 1.46, Pint= .02; ORpost = 1.34, Pint= .06) and CRP (ORelevated = 1.41, Pint= .04; ORnormal = 1.26, Pint= .16) on the PCOS-MetS association. We also observed a superadditive interaction between CRP and PCOS, adjusting for which resulted in an attenuated effect of PCOS on MetS (OR = 1.29 [0.93-1.78]). Conclusion: Hispanic/Latino females with PCOS had higher odds of MetS, IFG, and elevated TGL than their peers without PCOS. Interaction analyses revealed that the odds of MetS are higher among PCOS females who have premenopausal status or high inflammation. Interventions in Hispanic/Latinas should target these outcomes for effective management of the disease."

abstract_short = ""

image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []

url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
url_custom = [{name = "DOI", url = "https://doi.org/10.1210/clinem/dgae426"}]

math = false
highlight = true

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
