+++
title = "Analyzing Taiwanese Traffic Patterns on Consecutive Holidays Through Forecast Reconciliation and Prediction-Based Anomaly Detection Techniques"
date = "2025-06-20T00:00:00"
draft = false

authors = ["M Ashouri", "FKH Phoa", "MA Cremona"]
publication = "_IEEE_"
publication_short = "_IEEE_"
publication_types = ["2"]

abstract = "This study explores traffic patterns on Taiwanese highways during consecutive holidays, with a focus on understanding the behavior of Taiwanese highway traffic. We propose a prediction-based detection method for identifying highway traffic anomalies using reconciled ordinary least squares (OLS) forecasts and bootstrap prediction intervals. Two fundamental features of traffic flow time series – seasonality and spatial autocorrelation – are captured by adding Fourier terms in OLS models, spatial aggregation (as a hierarchical structure mimicking the geographical division into regions, cities, and stations), and a reconciliation step. Our approach, although simple, is capable of modeling complex traffic datasets with reasonable accuracy. Being based on OLS, it is efficient and permits avoiding the computational burden of more complex methods. Analyses of Taiwan’s consecutive holidays in 2019, 2020, and 2021 (73 days) showed strong variations in anomalies across different directions and highways. Specifically, we detected some areas and highways comprising a high number of traffic anomalies (north direction-central and southern regions-highways No. 1 and 3, south direction-southern region-highway No.3), and others with generally normal traffic (east and west direction). These results could provide important decision-support information to traffic authorities."

abstract_short = ""

image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []

url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
url_custom = [{name = "DOI", url = "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/11045382/"}]

math = false
highlight = true

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
