+++
title = "Evolution of genetic information in pathogenic microorganisms: Implications for diagnostics and epidemiology"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["1"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["Marcelo R. S. Briones (Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo)"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "I will briefly present my early work in Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas disease, and then present my current research in Experimental Microbial Evolution using the pathogenic yeast model, Candida albicans. We study the effects of oxygen concentrations and temperature in morphology and mitochondrial and nuclear genomes. This has major implications for designing typing markers for hospital acquired infections, a severe problem in intensive care units.For more information on Marcelo R. S. Briones. Please visit: http://www.hhmi.org/scientists/marcelo-briones."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2014-10-09T15:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "W-257 MSC at University Park; with video to room CG628 at Hershey"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=W-257%20MSC%20at%20University%20Park;%20with%20video%20to%20room%20CG628%20at%20Hershey%E2%80%9D"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
