+++
title = "Model-based block clustering with EM algorithm"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["1"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["Prabhani Kuruppumullage Don (Penn State)"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The next meeting of the Center for Medical Genomics will take place at 11 am on Feb 14 (Fri). Our speaker will be Prabhani Kuruppumullage Don and she will talk about \"Model-based block clustering with EM algorithm\". Prabhani is a statistician, and she has been working on the development of novel and powerful methods for analysis of genomic and medical data. For instance, Prabhani has been working with Francesca Chiaromonte and me on segmenting the human genome into regions differing in mutation rates and patterns, and this work has implications for evaluating disease-causing variants. Prabhani has recently given this talk at Harvard, and it was very well received."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2014-02-14T11:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "519 Wartik Lab at University Park; with video to room CG628 at Hershey"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=519%20Wartik%20Lab%20at%20University%20Park;%20with%20video%20to%20room%20CG628%20at%20Hershey%E2%80%9D"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
