+++
title = "The Fourth Annual Retreat of the Center for Medical Genomics (part of the Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences)"

date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["3"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = []

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The Fourth Annual Retreat of the Center for Medical Genomics (part of the Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences) will be held Tuesday, March 25, 2014 at the Penn State Hershey, University Conference Center.  The keynote speaker for this event will be Dr. Beth A. Tarini, M.D., University of Michigan, C.S. Mott Children s Hospital, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases. Dr. Tarini is Co-Chair of the American Academy of Pediatrics, Genetics in Primary Care Institute. The retreat also will include short talks by Penn State faculty, a poster session, and networking activities.  A goal of this retreat is to provide current genomics information and education to the Penn State University research community, particularly researchers wishing to participate in medical research.  All sessions are open to all interested participants."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2014-03-25T08:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "University Conference Center, Penn State Hershey campus"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=University%20Conference%20Center,%20Penn%20State%20Hershey%20campus%E2%80%9D"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
