+++
title = "Finally, after 2 billion years, the mitochondrion is part of the general cellular regulation"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["1"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["Dan Mishmar (Ben-Gurion University)"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Billions of years have passed since the fusion event that gave rise to current eukaryotes and their energy producing mitochondria. During that time, the mitochondria, a once free living alpha proteo-bacterium, lost most of its genetic material and became dependent on the cell for its biogenesis. Only 37 genes, which are important for energy metabolism and mitochondrial protein translation, were retained in the current small circular mitochondrial genome. Hence, mitochondrial DNA replication, transcription and post transcriptional regulation are controlled by proteins that are currently encoded by the cell nucleus. It was believed that only a handful of mitochondrial dedicated proteins control mitochondrial function. Hence, one could argue that mitochondria are regulated separately from the rest of the cell. In this talk we will present findings supporting the hypothesis that mitochondria are not only regulated by dedicated factors but are also part of the general cellular regulatory system. We will demonstrate that focusing on mitochondrial DNA transcription and RNA editing. Hence, the long co-existence of the ancient prokaryote within our cells was accompanied by regulatory adaptation."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2014-06-06T11:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "519 Wartik Lab at University Park; with video to room CG623 at Hershey"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=519%20Wartik%20Lab%20at%20University%20Park;%20with%20video%20to%20room%20CG623%20at%20Hershey%E2%80%9D"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
