+++
title = "Physiology Retreat 2014"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["3"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["Donna Korzick (Penn State)"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This year we have joined forces with the Center for Reproductive Biology and Health (CRBH). The combined Physiology/CRBH retreat consists of a one-and-a-half day meeting featuring keynote speakers, faculty and student talks, and poster presentations. This year we are honored to host Drs. Michael Sturek and Carol Bagnell as keynote speakers. The retreat is open to everyone. Attendance is free, but you must register by November 1, 2014. This year we have joined forces with the Center for Reproductive Biology and Health (CRBH). The combined Physiology/CRBH retreat consists of a one-and-a-half day meeting featuring keynote speakers, faculty and student talks, and poster presentations. This year we are honored to host Drs. Michael Sturek and Carol Bagnell as keynote speakers. The retreat is open to everyone. Attendance is free, but you must register by November 1, 2014."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2014-11-07T16:30:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "Life Sciences"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=Life%20Sciences%E2%80%9D"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
