+++
title = "Genomics Journal Club - RNA editing"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["2"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["Presenters will be chosen using the Hat procedure."]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Please join us in discussing the two following articles: (i) Human coding RNA editing is generally nonadaptive, Xu and Zhang, 2014 (ii) In Search of Beneficial Coding RNA Editing, Xu and Zhang, 2015. Let's focus on the 2014 article, and we will very briefly touch on the 2015 article (just read its abstract). There will be pizzas!"
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2015-09-29T13:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "307 Wartik Lab"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=Wartik%20Laboratory"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

url_custom = [
{name = "DOI 1", url = "https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1321745111"},
{name = "DOI 2", url = "https://doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msu314"}
]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
