+++
title = "New Techniques to Analyze the Microbiome: analyze thousands of samples, compare without a reference, and profile a community down to the strain level"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["1"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["David Koslicki (Oregon State University)"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "I will present a number of techniques (namely: Quikr, EMDeBruijn, and CommonKmers) that I've recently developed in collaboration with colleagues, and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of applying these techniques in a variety of circumstances. Quikr is an extremely fast, high level taxonomic profiling tool suitable for understanding the global structure of many metagenomics samples. EMDeBruijn is a reference free, de Bruijn graph-based approach to quantifying the similarities and differences between metagenomic samples, even in the presence of many novel microbial organisms. Finally, CommonKmers is a new, highly accurate taxonomic profiling technique capable of faithfully profiling a community down to the strain level. This technique can then use the resulting taxonomic profile to inform the assembly of a metagenome."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2015-02-12T11:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "519 Wartik, with video connection to CG628 in Hershey"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=Wartik%20Laboratory"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
