+++
title = "Nucleosomes: regulators and protectors"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["1"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["Jan Hapala, Masaryk University, Czech Republic"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Protein-DNA complexes called nucleosomes are fundamental building blocks of chromatin. They package a long eukaryotic genome into tiny chromosomes. More interestingly, recent years have brought an insight into the role of nucleosomes in the regulation of gene expression. An important regulatory feature of the nucleosome is its positioning. We have used a sequence-based algorithm to study nucleosome positioning around regulatory sites. The results indicate a role of nucleosome positioning in the protection of splice junctions and in the switch mechanism over TATA boxes."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2016-03-18T15:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "519 Wartik, videoconferenced to Hershey room #CG623"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=Wartik%20Laboratory"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
