+++
title = "Annual Retreat"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["3"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["Keynote speaker: Anna Di Rienzo, Professor at University of Chicago. Junior investigator speakers: Heather Lawson, Assistant Professor at Washington University and Melissa Wilson Sayres, Assistant Professor, Arizona State University."]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Join us on May 19, 2016 in the Berg Auditorium of the Life Sciences Building at the University Park Campus! This event brings together Penn State research communities from the University Park and College of Medicine with a purpose of establishing new collaborations and discussing the existing ones. We are united by our interest in genomics and its applications to medicine. You will learn about the latest research on genomics of metabolic, inflammatory, neurodegenerative, immune, and reproductive system diseases. You will also have a chance to network and meet current and former PSU researchers working in this area."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2016-05-19T00:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "Berg Auditorium, University Park campus"
#Schedule and Registration"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = ""

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

url_custom_front = [
{name = "Register", url = "https://goo.gl/CwJX0F"},
{name = "Schedule", url = "http://www.bx.psu.edu/ctr_med_genom/retreat_2016/schedule.html"}
]


# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
