+++
title = "Animal mitochondrial DNA as we don't know it: mt-genome organization and evolution in non-bilaterian lineages"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["1"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = ["Dennis V. Lavrov, Associate Professor, Chair, Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Graduate Program, Iowa State University"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Animal mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is commonly described as a small, circular molecule that is uniform in size, gene content, and organization. However, data collected in the last decade have challenged this view by revealing substantial diversity in animal mitochondrial genomes. Much of this diversity is found in non-bilaterian animals (phyla Cnidaria, Ctenophora, Placozoa, and Porifera), which, from a phylogenetic perspective, form the major branches of the animal tree along with Bilateria. Within these phyla, mtDNA shows variation in size, organization, genetic code, gene content, presence/absence of introns, RNA structures, mRNA processing, and rates of evolution. This newly discovered diversity allows a better understanding of the evolutionary plasticity and conservation of animal mtDNA and can provide insights into the molecular and evolutionary mechanisms shaping mitochondrial genomes."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2016-02-26T15:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "501 Wartik video-conferenced to CG623 Hershey"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = "http://maps.google.com/?q=Wartik%20Laboratory"

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
