+++
title = "8th Translational Research in Mitochondria, Aging, and Disease (TriMAD) Symposium"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
# 4 = Symposium
event_types = ["4"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = []

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In recent years, research focusing on the role of mitochondria as it relates to aging and disease has grown exponentially, bringing great understanding to and growing interest in the mitochondrial mechanisms that impact human disease and aging.  The 8th Regional Translational Research in Mitochondria, Aging and Disease TRiMAD Symposium will be host to some of the top investigators in the field."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2018-09-21T10:00:00
#time_end = 2018-09-22T17:30:00

# Location of event.
location = "Berg Auditorium, 100 Life Sciences Building"

# Optional event name URL.
event = ""
event_url = ""

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]
url_custom_front = [
{name = "Register", url = "https://www.cvent.com/events/8th-regional-translational-research-in-mitochondria-aging-and-disease-symposium/registration-16730cf0fe2c47a1b79f1a3b9ab0b364.aspx"},
{name = "Agenda", url = "https://www.cvent.com/events/8th-regional-translational-research-in-mitochondria-aging-and-disease-symposium/agenda-16730cf0fe2c47a1b79f1a3b9ab0b364.aspx"},
{name = "More Info", url = "https://www.cvent.com/events/8th-regional-translational-research-in-mitochondria-aging-and-disease-symposium/event-summary-16730cf0fe2c47a1b79f1a3b9ab0b364.aspx"}
]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "trimad.jpg"
caption = ""

+++
