+++
title = "Annual Retreat of the Center for Medical Genomics"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Event type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Seminar
# 2 = Journal Club
# 3 = Retreat
event_types = ["3"]

# Presenters. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
presenters = []

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The Keynote Speaker for this event is Dr. Joann B. Sweasy, Ph.D., Ensign Professor and Vice-Chair, Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, and Associate Director for Basic Science, Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center.  Dr. Sweasy’s research has been continuously funded by the NIH since 1994, and focuses on determining the roles of DNA repair in human diseases, using biochemistry and mouse models. She will speak about her recent research showing the critical roles for DNA repair in preventing the autoimmune disease, systemic lupus erythematosus. The retreat also will include short talks by former graduate students and current Penn State faculty, and a poster session."
abstract_short = ""

# Event start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2018-05-22T00:00:00
#time_end = 

# Location of event.
location = "Penn State Hershey University Conference Center"

# Optional event name URL.
event = "Annual Retreat of the Center for Medical Genomics"
event_url = ""

# Is this a selected event? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this event with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
url_zoom = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]
url_custom_front = [
{name = "Register", url = "https://docs.google.com/forms/d/15mi7etz-f99JXNiyIZy2K3GViHdHwXukRyontEwXT9k/edit"},
{name = "Agenda", url = "http://www.bx.psu.edu/ctr_med_genom/retreat_2018/2018_CMG_Retreat_agenda.pdf"}
]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
