+++
title = "Complete genomes of a multi-generational pedigree to expand studies of genetic and epigenetic inheritance"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false
event_types = ["1"]
presenters = ["Monika Cechova - UCSC"]
time_start = 2023-10-11T15:00:00
time_end = 2023-10-11T16:00:00
reschedule = false
location = "501 Wartik"
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_zoom = ""
url_custom = [{name="WWWGLS Schedule", url="https://www.ccbb.psu.edu/seminar/"}]
math = false
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

## Abstract

The complete genomes provide an opportunity for a new biological discovery in repetitive parts of the genomes that were frequently missing, incomplete, or misrepresented in the past, such as centromeres. Here, we present a study aiming to release complete, T2T diploid assemblies of four individuals, representing a three-generational pedigree of African-American ancestry. To this end, we have utilized a combination of high-coverage, long-read (51x HiFi, PacBio, and 71x Nanopore Ultra-long data 100kb+, Oxford Nanopore Technologies) and short-read paired technologies for haplotype phasing (including 76x coverage Omni-C, Cantata Genomics, 39x paired read parental data for trio-based phasing, as well as Strandseq and Pore-C data). Using two iterative, graph-based methods with ultra-long nanopore integration (verkko (Rautiainen et al. 2023) and hifiasm-UL (Cheng et al. 2022)), we achieved a high number (e.g. 32/46) of automated telomere-to-telomere (T2T) chromosome assemblies, with additional improvements with the two assembly methods combined. This allowed us to study transgenerational inheritance in biologically critical regions that are highly repetitive and present copy number variation within the population. We provide evidence for genetic and epigenetic inheritance across large tandem repeats that define human centromeres. For example, we found that the centromeric sequence for chromosome 12 was 100% identical across the three generations, spanning the length of 3,321,121 basepairs, allowing us to study the biological variation in methylation patterns in this region, such as the variation in CDR (Centromere Dip Region), marked by large dips in methylation that underlie the binding of the centromeric protein CENP-A. Moreover, we found preliminary evidence of the enrichment of another modification, 5-Hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), in the peri(centromeric) region, and especially in the flanking HSat3 satellite arrays. Additionally, our assemblies captured several rDNA arrays, such as on chromosomes 21 and 22. In summary, these results provide a high-quality multi-generational pedigree that serves as a community resource for tracing of transgenerational inheritance, as well as genetic and epigenetic variation of centromeres, satellite DNA, and rDNA arrays.

## Bio

Monika Cechova is a Postdoctoral Scholar at UCSC in the lab of Dr. Karen Miga, co-founder of the Telomere-to-Telomere (T2T) consortium. Dr. Cechova has long-standing interest in satellite DNA and sex chromosomes (especially the evolution of the Y chromosome in primates), as well as the most recent technological developments in the genomics of long reads. Monika Cechova significantly contributed to the first ever complete sequence of the human Y chromosome. Before UCSC, she was a postdoc at the Masaryk University, Czechia, and is also an alumna of Makova lab at Penn State.


