+++
title = "Redefining Virus Evolution and Emergence Using Metatranscriptomics"
date = 2003-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false
event_types = ["1"]
presenters = ["Edward Holmes"]
time_start = 2025-04-14T12:00:00
time_end = 2025-04-14T13:00:00
reschedule = false
location = "Foster Auditorium"
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_zoom = "https://psu.zoom.us/j/92508339397"
url_custom = [{name="", url=""}]
math = false
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++

## Abstract



## Bio
Professor Edward Holmes is a leading expert on the evolution and emergence of infectious diseases, focusing on how RNA viruses cross species boundaries to infect humans and animals. He is currently a Professor of Virology at the University of Sydney. Dr. Holmes has focused on the molecular genetics of viral transmission across species, including the mechanisms behind emerging viruses like SARS-CoV-2, influenza, and HIV. His research aims to uncover why certain pathogens are more likely to jump between species and spread, while using methods like metagenomics to discover new viruses and investigate disease patterns. He also studies ancient DNA to understand the causes of past pandemics, such as the plague and cholera. Dr. Holmes has previously held positions at Penn State and the National Institutes of Health. He has published over 750 papers and received numerous awards, including the Australian Prime Minister's Prize for Science and the Croonian Medal from The Royal Society.
